As a viewer or a fellow entrepreneur, the knowledge behind what increases the probabilities of getting a deal from the Sharks is greatly increased. Now it is possible to watch the show, gather new information and predict if the entrepreneur will be receiving a deal. Whether we use multiple logistic regression or the optimal regression tree, we are able to somewhat predict if we are getting a handshake. 

In non-statistical terms, an entrepreneur can use the findings and tailor their pitch in order to make a deal. For instance, we now know having a product in cycling, home improvement and baby/children’s clothes and accessories will have the most impact on the decision. On top of this if your ask is between $49 000 - $57 000, you have the highest chance of getting an offer. In general, the higher you valuate your company, the more money you ask for and the higher exchange for stake in your offer, it becomes increasingly more difficult to get a deal.     

As a Shark, it is also interesting to see this analysis. If the probability of a deal is being predicted, then a Shark could use this information to predict whether they should or shouldn’t offer a deal based of historical data. If the deal probability is low based off the model, then the Shark would be more enticed to decline the offer. 

For the viewer, the less technical terms could be more interesting. For instance, the interactive map showing where the entrepreneurs are from is quite amusing and allows viewers to see the show diversifies very well in terms of geographical location. One can pinpoint their own home and see if any deals have been made with local companies. In the future, perhaps with more information it will be possible to see a trend with cities who have seen more success at getting a deal. 

As in all models, some limitations were noticed while going through the data. Firstly, the dataset is quite small. A quick Google search will tell you there are 15 seasons in total. However, the dataset only contains 6 seasons, meaning, not only is there a lack of data but there is no updated information on the new seasons. Potential trends could arise or changes in business models due to the pandemic which are not taken into consideration in this dataset. As we know, businesses significantly got affected by the pandemic and this is not seen in this data. Secondly, the type of deal made in Shark Tank has a huge impact as well. Many more factors from the show could be taken into account. The variables were very limited. For instance, how many Sharks were interested could influence others to make a deal, if there are royalties, the company sales and revenue or behavioural components such as how entertaining the pitch was. So many external factors come into play, many of which cannot be quantified.  

All in all, lots of insightful information is gathered from this dataset and even with limitations, not everything can be added to the model or there would be overfitting. These simple models at least help future entrepreneurs, potential Sharks or the viewers who make the show a reality, to predict the probability of getting deals.
